HPE Africa s new 20 Ton class crawler excavator i the Hyundai R200LC-9S &#8211; which was recently launched in South Africa, offers the best in its class in fuel efficiency, improved productivity and reduced maintenance requirements.The Hyundai R200LC-9S excavator &#8211; with an operating weight of 19,1 Tons and a heavy duty 0,90 m bucket has been specifically designed to meet the demanding requirements of the plant hire, civil engineering, construction, agriculture and scrap handling industries.According to Alex Ackron, managing director of HPE Africa, Feedback from the local market highlighted a demand for fuel efficient equipment and Hyundai Construction Equipment has responded to this need, with the launch of the new R200LC-9S. Due to improved fuel efficiency, when compared to competitors offerings in this class, customers can save up to 80% of their capital expenditure in diesel costs over 12 000 hours of a machine s service. Users are also impressed with the long undercarriage design, which ensures greater stability in arduous operating conditions. Customers also appreciate the low maintenance requirements of this series and are impressed by the Hyundai factory offering of a two year/3 000 hour warranty as standard on the series. As part of the launch process, HPE Africa placed an R200LC-9S demonstration unit on site with one of the largest fleet owners of water and earth moving equipment in South Africa. Over a 14 day period, the machine built gravel stockpiles and loaded this material into tipper trucks. The operator commented that he was impressed with the machine s speed and smooth operation. Fuel consumption was carefully monitored by HPE Africa s technical staff and verified by the client. At the end of this 14 day period, the R200LC-9S achieved an average fuel consumption significantly below the expected nine litres an hour.The R200LC-9S excavator also comes standard with Hyundai s computer aided power optimisation (CAPO) system, which allows the operator to select preferences for boom or swing priority, power mode and optional work tools. Variable operating modes are : P Power Max mode, which maximises machine speed and power; S &#8211; standard mode, which provides a reduced, fixed rpm and E &#8211; economy mode, which provides precise hydraulic flow and engine power based on load demand.HPE Africa &#8211; exclusive distributors in Southern Africa for Hyundai Construction Equipment distributes Hyundai wheel loaders, wheeled and tracked excavators, backhoe loaders and Skid Steer Loaders, as well as Soosan hydraulic hammers. The company operates a countrywide network of a well-equipped spares and workshop outlets.