Contemporary mine planning, design and scheduling can both be frustrating as well as exciting to mine operators. One the one hand, the excitement comes from having a tool that simplifies the implementation of complex operations in ways, once considered barely credible. On the other hand, the difficulty is mainly down to the lack of or limited adoption of digitisation. In particular, to mine operators, limited resources not only render mine planning broader and less tractable, but also make it more difficult to measure the value outcomes of the various decisions that have been made.What is more refreshing, though, is that, with a sluggish environment, it has dawned on many a mine operator that traditional mining methods cannot address the current challenge adequately. Conspicuously, adopting effective use of Information Communication Technology (ICT) has progressed from mere boardroom &#8220;Any Other Business&#8221; to a critical business agenda item.Mining companies have embraced digital transformation, through incorporating ICT in the business strategy. The primary objective is improving the quality of planning while maximising production.All the more, as mining companies are embarking on the exercise of rightsizing their staff complements, planning, design, scheduling and labour management will make their r lean human resource more efficient.Nonetheless, whilst planning, design, scheduling and labour management offers immense benefits, Ian Saker, IT specialist and marketing director of of Mineware Consulting, fears that most mine operators might be left behind, due to lack of awareness. He laments that South African mines (the same would apply to mine operators in other countries in Africa) seem to underestimate the significance of reliable and sufficient data in planning, design, scheduling and labour management to their operations from pit-t0-port. It is only after they have converted to a secure auditable package, that they realise what they have been lacking, he says. Ever-shifting data results in scenarios having to be constantly remodeled, often with incomplete information that is based on estimates from past performance, giving you models that don not accurately reflect reality at the given point. Lack of careful consideration can lead to slippages in the production schedule and cost overruns, which no miner can afford at the moment,&#8221;Saker points out.On the whole, evidently, the sustainability of capital-intensive industries like mining will hinge on how much investment is made in the ICT sector. Innovations that will develop from public-private partnerships will leverage the capabilities of ICT to make all systems servicing the mining industry smarter, more effective, and highly efficient. Indeed, the choice is entirely at the proverbial finger tips of mining companies: Either digitisation or death.