Power Management Company, Eaton, participated in the this years Solar Show Africa 2017, that took place from 28th to 29th March 2017, at the Sandton Convention Centre, Johannesburg, South Africa. Eaton showcased a comprehensive selection of generation, transmission and distribution solutions for the utilities segment as well as turnkey solar solutions that can be tailored to unique requirements. Energy is the largest source of growth in Africa particularly because energy is an enabler of industry so the most pertinent question is, how can we facilitate this growth now? We see the biggest potential in renewable energy in Africa as costs are decreasing, therefore making it affordable and accessible, explained Seydou Kane, Managing Director for Africa Eaton Electrical Sector.Eaton a proud supporter of, Power Africa, the US Government s initiative to double access to power in sub-Saharan Africa, remains focused on maximising the energy harvest in residential, commercial and utility-scale solar power projects. With the changes in regulations and financing challenges, customers need a partner that has the expertise to help them maximise their up-time and energy production while prioritising the safety of people.In line with this continued focus, two Eaton energy experts held speaking slots at this year s seminar. Eugene Ranft, Operations Manager for Eaton, highlight the importance of meeting South Africa s local requirements for solar on Tuesday 28 March 2017 at 10:30am and Louis Shaffer, Distributed Energy Segment Director for EMEA at Eaton, provided an overview of the emergence of storage and micro-grids for solar in Africa on Tuesday 28 March 2017 at 11:10am.Products on display during Solar Show Africa 2017 included: Power Xpert CX The Power Xpert CX is Eaton&#8217;s IEC low voltage power assembly up to 5500 A. The system provides reliable power distribution and motor control functionality for all commercial and industrial applications. This innovative design, combined with Eaton&#8217;s expertise in the area of low voltage applications, delivers a platform that is at the heart of any power distribution and motor control application. CX is a flexible system which maximizes safety and uptime.Additionally Eaton featured the Power Xpert UX &#8211; Innovative in its design, originated from the Unitole family, field-proven over forty years of vacuum circuit breaker production and fully third-party certified to IEC 62271-100 and IEC 62271-200, Eaton&#8217;s new UX range of compact air insulated with drawable Medium Voltage switchgear leads the industry in safety, reliability, performance and sustainability. Further products on display this year are the Xiria E Modular Switchgear for Smart Grid Applications. Xiria E is the name of Eaton&#8217;s new medium voltage switchgear for smart grid applications and is characterised by its high level of operational safety and suitable for applications up to 24 kV.Eaton offers the industries most complete and reliable selection of circuit protection solutions for PV balance of system with Eaton s Bussmann series of photovoltaic fuses The unmatched global PV fuse offering up to 1500Vdc, is industry s most complete solar PV fuse offering that allows for protection anywhere in the PV installation. The compatible fuse links have been specifically designed to interrupt low overcurrent associated with faulted PV systems (reverse current, multi-array fault). Eaton s Bussmann series has boosted the versatility of its XL gPV square bodied fuse range with the introduction of the 2XL fuse with 3L bolt pattern.Eaton also displayed their new DC Switch-disconnectors to their reliable Dumeco range. These products are designed to help photovoltaic equipment manufacturers and installers gain a competitive edge within the increasingly significant solar energy market. These new robust DC Switch-disconnectors provide safe isolation for any photovoltaic or low voltage DC circuit application and are available in four different frame sizes. The whole range of Dumeco DC Switch-disconnectors is suitable for nominal currents up to Ue = 1000 Vdc. All Dumeco DC Switch-disconnectors frame sizes help saving space as they all have a relatively small footprint resulting in a more flexible assembly and additional cost savings.