Aury Africa aims to become a leading manufacturer and supplier of high-performance mineral-processing equipment to the African mining industry by 2022. This is the vision of the company s new management team, led by Director Sydney Parkhouse.Key to the ongoing success of the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) is the industry-leading expertise and experience of its management team. Parkhouse, a professional engineer, himself has 40 years experience in the mining industry, from coal to gold, and has worked as far afield as China, Mozambique, and Colombia.He is joined by George Sturgeon as Business Development Manager, Ameen Peters as Regional Sales Manager, Kiran Singh as Production Manager, and Active Ngwenya as Sales Administrator. In the meantime, we would like to reassure all of our customers that it is business as usual, Parkhouse stresses.Parkhouse will ensure that Aury Africa has good representation in Africa, with the initial focus being on Zambia and Mozambique. Our mission is to provide our clients with reliable and cost-effective solutions to their production challenges, supported by professional aftersales service teams, he comments.In addition, Parkhouse will strive to forge a closer working relationship with both Aury China and Aury Australia. We will draw on the technical expertise and project successes of the international group, combined with our local knowledge of African operating conditions. Aury Africa produces a complete range of high-quality vibrating screens for the coal, gold, and minerals-processing sectors. This consists of banana, horizontal, circular, high-frequency, and flip-flop vibrating screens.It also supplies a range of exciters to fit most OEM screen types. Consumable products available include centrifuge baskets, polyurethane (PU) wedge wire panels, intertank/interstage cylinder screens for classification, sieve bends, static panels for separation. A significant competitive advantage for Aury Africa, and a major cost-saver for our clients, is our capability to manufacture these PU wedge wire panels locally, Parkhouse points out. These are available at a fraction of the price of similar imported products panels. Combined with our technical back-up and support, we are able to offer a total solution. Commenting on the current state of the mining industry, Parkhouse is optimistic that the green shoots appearing in commodity sectors such as copper and iron ore bode well for the industry as a whole. We will ramp up our production in conjunction with our clients, as they ramp up their operations in anticipation of meeting the increased demand for commodities globally, he concludes.