A-OSH EXPO, Africa’s leading occupational health and safety (OHS) trade exhibition, is returning to the Gallagher Convention Centre in Midrand once again from 22 to 24 May 2018. Now in its eighth year, A-OSH EXPO has shown steady growth in industry support year-on-year, helping to match up the sector’s leading product and service providers with a keen audience that represents Africa’s OHS professionals and business leaders. Sven Smit,  Event Director at Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery, says, “A-OSH EXPO provides a platform for knowledge exchange and relationship building. The expo facilitates networking between peers and discussions with the industry’s key associations, and provides a platform for the local OHS sector to source new products and services.” A-OSH EXPO is co-located with Securex South Africa 2018, the only security and fire trade show of its kind on the African continent. Together, the two shows drew in more than 9,000 visitors in 2017, with over 2,500 attending AOSH EXPO 2017 from 24 countries over three days. A-OSH EXPO will once again feature a number of highly popular free-to-attend seminar theatres, which provide in-depth content on critical industry issues. Exhibitors at the show will be able to increase their exposure and strengthen their brand, reach a highly qualified expert audience, and showcase their newest products and services to thousands of current and prospective customers. The event receives a seal of approval from the South African Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (Saiosh), which is recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) as the Professional Body to register occupational health and safety professionals in South Africa, with over 10,000 members. Saiosh CEO, Neels Nortje, comments, “Saiosh has been involved with A-OSH EXPO since its inception eight years ago, as both partner and exhibitor. We will once again be holding our annual OHS conference at Gallagher Convention Centre during A-OSH EXPO 2018. It is truly advantageous for our members to be able to attend the conference and visit the EXPO during the same time frame. For the OHS professional, this event has something for all interests and passions.” More than 50 exhibitors have already signed up for the 2018 show, showcasing a full range of OHS products and services, including disaster management, fall arrest and working at height equipment, first aid products and services, health and safety consultancies, lifting and handling equipment, safety related software and hazardous materials storage. Key sectors represented include the government, mining, retail, telecommunications, beverages, aviation and banking. Smit says, “Workplace health and safety for employees is their human right, but it also makes good business sense for employers as well. More than two million non-fatal workplace injuries occur in South Africa every year, requiring three or less days off work. In addition, good mental health plays a role in keeping employees happy and therefore more productive. “With safer and happier employees equating to a reduced number of days lost due to workplace illness or accidents, as well as reduced staff turnover, it’s clear that employers need to play their part in improving staff health and thereby productivity. In tough economic times, this ultimately equates to a win-win for everyone.” Visitor entrance to both A-OSH EXPO 2018 and Securex South Africa 2018 is free – for more information please visit www.aosh.co.za, or contact Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery on +27 11 835-1565 CONTACTS: Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery, Natasha Heiberg, tel: +27 (0) 11 835 1565, info@aosh.co.za icomm, Vivienne Fouche, +27 (0)82 602 1635, vivienne@pr.co.za