  Rope access specialist, Skyriders, continues to expand its footprint beyond Africa, which is illustrated clearly through its ongoing involvement in a significant power-station complex maintenance project in Indonesia. Skyriders completed Phase 2 of the project in September 2017, focusing on Unit 6, after successfully undertaking Phase 1 from March to April 2016. It was awarded the original contract in February 2016, with the latest project representing its ongoing involvement with this particular client. “Our continuous selection is due to the world-class service we offer, based on the highest international standards,” Marketing Manager, Mike Zinn, comments. Skyriders’ scope of work entailed the internal inspection and maintenance of an industrial  smokestack structure, which expels combustion gases to the atmosphere. The inspection process is critical to ascertain that the internal stack lining remains in a safe and serviceable condition. If neglected, it could cause undue stresses on the concrete windshield which can then lead to a compromise in the structure integrity of the stack. The Skyriders’ team comprised a senior inspection manager and four technicians. The team included a local Indonesian technician to assist with translation and liaison. “He is a critical member of the team in terms of support, and ensuring they have all the equipment and materials necessary whenever they are suspended from the ropes,” Zinn explains. With the rand-dollar exchange rate proving highly beneficial to Skyriders outside South Africa at the moment, Zinn says the company hopes to capitalise on this, and clinch more work in the power-generation sector in future, which is no mean feat considering the fierce global competition. “Although similar services are provided by many other recognised and accredited companies in Europe and Australia, Skyriders has gained a competitive edge due to being able to provide the same international service offering at a substantially lower rate, without compromising on safety or quality,” Zinn concludes.