  Volt Resources (Volt) CEO Trevor Mathews has announced that , there is a positive outcome out from recent meeting betweenTanzania minister for minerals, Angellah Kairuki, and government representatives regarding Bunyu Graphite Project development strategy. The meeting has paved way for Volt to obtain the mining licence and commence the process of meeting other regulatory requirements for the project development, as well as the operation of the Bunyu graphite project. “We are very grateful for those who took the time to meet with the company this week, including the honorable Angellah Kairuki, who affirmed her commitment to foreign investment following her recent appointment as Tanzanian minister for minerals,” commented Volt Resources CEO, Trevor Matthews said n a press release. “I am also pleased to report that we continue to receive strong support and interest in the development of the project with future opportunities from the local Bunyu North and the Bunyu South villages respectively. “We look forward to further building on these strong foundations over the coming months and years,” he continued. Volt’s meeting with Mtwara regional commissioner Another meeting was held with the new Mtwara regional commissioner, Gelasius Gasper Byakanwa, where he expressed his support for the development of the Bunyu graphite project . A key  aspect from the meetings completed this week is that the positive benefits of an export-oriented industry are well understood by many within the Tanzanian government and community. The development of the company’s Bunyu graphite project will significantly boost regional employment. Among other things, Volt promised to provide skills and safety training for local people to participate in the project development and opportunities for local and regional businesses. Extensive meetings were held with community representatives from the Bunyu North villages of Utimbala, Namangale, the Bunyu South villages of Chidya and Chiwata. Representatives from the district council, including the district executive director, attended to assist with the discussions on relocation compensation and other matters raised by the representatives at the meeting. The meetings were successful in identifying the key community issues and building on the relationship with the community members.   The Pre Feasibility Study (PFS) has a forecast annual production of 170kt/y of graphite concentrate, with non-binding MOUs for 100kt/y from three China based end-users.  