Global wet processing industry leader, CDE, will once again participate in CONEXPO-CON/AGG (on 7-11 March 2017) where the company will unveil its latest innovation, the CDE M5500 wash plant that can produce up to 550 tons per hour of washed materials on a single chassis. A selection of Infinity screens, the company s new development in screening technology, will also be launched on the North American market along with other technological surprises. Kevin Vallelly, Head of Product Development at CDE, said: In 2017, CDE is upping the stakes by unveiling a powerful high-tech sand washing plant dedicated to the needs of the North American materials washing market. CONEXPO 2017 is the ideal launching pad for an innovative washing solution that will answer materials washing operators needs for more efficient, user-friendly, economical and powerful equipment. This latest addition to the M-Series combines feeding, screening, washing and stockpiling onto one chassis, and packs an extra punch with unique features. These include a higher capacity of 550 tons per hour, a five-product capability and triple pass cyclone sand washing.The CDE M-Series range now offers a comprehensive range of solutions adapted to the needs of all our North American customers. The M5500 is specifically adapted to the requirements of North American operators who are seeking to achieve high production levels with a focus on quality and cost-efficiency. Adapted to applications in both dry and wet screening situations across a wide range of materials, the new CDE Infinity technology will also be of particular interest to operators looking for sturdier and more economical vibrating screens. Neil Mullan, Design Engineer at CDE, explains: CONEXPO 2017 offers an ideal platform to launch our new Infinity screen range. We sell over 200 screens every year to the global market, either as part of the modular equipment that we have become well known or as stand-alone. The new weld-free Infinity screens can generate the same acceleration as conventional screens with less weight, resulting in a reduction in power consumption and in operational costs, which presents significant benefits to our clients operations. According to CDE, its materials washing equipment allows for more accurate material classification than traditional sand washing methods, higher quality washed sand, reduced costs of pond excavation, and reduced risks on site. The final product exits the plant ready for use, having been dewatered to 15% moisture. Tony Convery, President and Founder of CDE, said: I very much look forward to introducing the M5500 and the Infinity screens range at CONEXPO 2017, which has a global reputation for innovation. Year after year, CDE keeps adapting to the evolving market demand for even more high-tech, cost-saving, user and environmentally-friendly materials washing solutions for operators in the construction, mining, industrial sands and recycling sectors. With an increasing number of operators switching from traditional sand washing machines to more efficient equipment, the North American market has become an important focus in the CDE business development strategy. . The company s sustained investment in research and development seems to have paid off and the production and quality standards that the new M5500 sets bring an exciting alternative to existing equipment on the market. The company will welcome visitors at its 1,134m stand in the Silver lot 1 S5438. The North American Business Development team, engineers, project managers, after-sales representatives, senior management and members of the Board of Directors will be present to assist customers with their queries. For further information on CDE please visit www.cdeglobal.com Stand location: Silver Lot 1, Stand: S5438 For further information: Fran Barlet Marketing and Sales Support Executive CDE GlobalT: +44 28 8676 7900&#x66;&#x62;&#97;rle&#x74;&#x40;&#x63;&#100;eg&#x6c;&#x6f;&#x62;&#97;l.&#x63;&#x6f;&#x6d; &nbsp;