Visitors to the first day of the expo in Johannesburg have the chance to see some of the world s best pumping systems and meet top experts under one roofSouth Africa s leading mining pump supplier enjoyed a good first day at Africa s leading industrial technology and supply expo.It&#8217;s the first time at INDUTEC for RNE Pumps and the company has a reputation built over 40 years.Across South Africa 86 per cent of mines use RNE&#8217;s vertical spindle pump &#8211; it&#8217;s well proven and tough. This expo is our business and it is right that we are part of it, said Mark Enell, RNE s Sales Manager. Yes, we are well known and our pumps are found across the world including Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and Thailand. RNE is a South African original equipment manufacturer that is taking on the world with a proven product. From mining through to plant, chemical and slurry applications, Mark knows his pump can compete anywhere.INDUTEC 2017 runs from Wednesday May 17 until Friday and today was the first day. The theme of this year s expo at the Gallagher Convention Centre, Johannesburg, offers a special focus on the pumps, valves and pipes sector in sub-Saharan Africa.One exhibitor was demonstrating a business partnership that works across two continents and is now moving into Africa.A business relationship going back to 2001 brought together two men, one from Denmark and one from China to set up Coreline in 2014.Ole Bjoern Jensen and his partner Bill Sun are in Johannesburg this week with their range of specialised valves. Bill can manufacture according to specifications that I provide, said Ole Bjoern. We ve been very successful with our range of butterfly valves, ball valves, check valves, knife gate valves and the like. Coreline is at INDUTEC 2017 as a way of meeting two existing clients in Johannesburg, he said. Within the first hour we received a positive enquiry so we re looking for success with new business too. INDUTEC is also host to two key industry conferences over the three days: PVP Live and WaterTec, both endorsed by the South African Department of Trade &amp; Industry (the dti).South Africa has a lot to offer but needs support to ensure its local business play an active role in the future economic success of the country.Kamagelo Mampane is Chairman of the State Owned Entities Procurement Forum (SOEPF) and his enthusiasm and positive focus on the vital role it plays in both ensuring economic purchases for the public sector combined with positive support for local business is clear.He was one of the panelists for the session overcoming local industry challenges at yesterday s first day of the PVP Live 2017 conference programme, where he explained the vital balance between successful production but also ensure job opportunities for local people. People want to be involved, they as what can we do? and in that way they can be integrated into the supply chain. It s about collaboration. Yesterday he sought to explain at the conference how South Africa s unique business environment provided a unique opportunity for investors.INDUTEC 2017 continues on Thursday and Friday and full details can be found on the website www.indutecafrica.com register for entry here www.indutecafrica.com/enquire-about-visitingP