The new Atlas Copco XRH 1100 and XRV 1200 high-pressure portable diesel compressors are designed and engineered to reliably deliver quality air for a range of drilling applications including deep hole, water well and reverse circulation (RC) drilling. During the development of this high-efficiency XR series of two-stage, rotary screw, oil-injected compressors, Atlas Copco focused on product quality, user-friendliness, serviceability and economical operation to ensure best-in-class cost of ownership for end-users. Driven by a powerful state-of-the-art liquid-cooled Cummins diesel engine, the XRH 1100 compressor generates 1100 cfm at 21 bar while the larger XRV 1200 is powered by a six-cylinder Cummins and generates 1170 cfm at 23 bar. The XRH 1100 and XRV 1200 compressors are ideal for maximum drilling depths of up to 300m and 350m respectively. The units owe their exceptionally economic power consumption to the fully automatic step-less speed regulator which adapts engine speed to air demand. Consequently both compressors deliver unmatched fuel efficiency with a reduced fuel consumption of up to 3 litres of diesel per hour compared to their counterparts. Over a ten hour shift this can translate to a saving of up to 30 litres which when taking into account the ever rising cost of diesel will lead to massive cost reductions! The units’ compact dimensions and consequently small footprint as well as their light weight of 4 300kg makes them ideally suited for mounting onto drilling trucks. “Currently the lightest in their class with comparable units weighing some 5t, the XRH 1100 and XRV 1200 are also suitable for fitment to an excavator with a drilling attachment,” affirms Business Line Manager for Power Technique’s (previously Construction Technique) Portable Energy division, David Stanford. The screw element, engine, cooling, air/oil separation and control systems are all enclosed within a strong corrosion-protection powder coated steel sound attenuated (85dbA) canopy that meets the most current legal noise level requirements.