Probe, South Africa’s leading and largest importer and distributor of premium batteries and auto electrical parts, launches top international air compressor brand, Stanley Fatmax, into the local market.  With exclusive distribution rights for Stanley Fatmax in South Africa, this latest offering in Probe’s comprehensive line up of premium products will enable the company to provide the complete power and air package to diverse customers across domestic, automotive, mining and industrial sectors. Probe CEO, Frank Rovelli, says that while air compressors are used in a widening range of applications, from the better-known heavy industrial applications through to DIY domestic use, there is limited access to premium, high-quality air units.  He says, “As a trusted brand with a solid network and fifty years of experience in the market, Probe is well positioned to provide high quality compressed air as well as associated parts and specialist knowledge for both pre- and after-sales support.” Probe recognised that the Stanley Fatmax was an ideal product to be launched in the local market, due to its sophisticated product range that accommodates a variety of applications, from industrial and professional use, through to the burgeoning consumer do-it-yourself (DIY) market.  The Fatmax range of products is distributed internationally by FiniNuAir (FNA), a multinational group of companies with almost 100 years’ of experience in the compressed air industry.  A strong relationship with FNA has enabled Probe to make these high-specification air compression products available to the local market.   Rovelli says of the acclaimed Fatmax range:  “Using compressed air in industrial and professional settings is a given.  But as DIY and hobby work become more popular in South Africa, good air compression products aimed at consumers are not that easy to come by.  The Fatmax air compressor units all come with excellent technical specifications regardless of the air compression requirement.  This means that whether the air compressor unit is being used in an industrial setting for rigorous and sustained air compression, or by the DIY enthusiast for their various jobs around the house, you are going to get an excellent product.”   DIY enthusiasts are in for a treat with the Fatmax entry-level compressors.  This includes the oilless air compressor and the Futura, both of which are maintenance free.  The oilless compressor comes in compact vertical tank sizes of 30 and 50 litres and, given their  lean design, are ideal for all hobby applications.  With a large handle and built-in wheels, and built-in storage compartments for accessories makes it a hassle free, easy-to-move option for any DIY enthusiast.  The key feature of the Futura range is its permanently lubricated pump which is enclosed in a steel casing to provide complete protection.  The Futura is lightweight and compact.  Smaller models have tanks of 5, 6 and 12-litre sizes.  To offer slightly wider application than the oilless compressor, the Future also comes in 24-, 30- and 50-litre tanks.   All the Futura models have large and easy to read guages and rubber feet for enhanced stability during use.  The Futura can be used for domestic use and smaller industrials tasks such as inflating, professional spraying, screwing and stapling.  The direct driven lubricated compressor is a more recent addition to the Fatmax range, providing an enriched technical solution that highly simplifies its use.  It comes in 2 Hp and 2,5 Hp pump sizes and, with its sturdy and compact body, suits the most demanding hobbyist.  Similar to other Fatmax compressors, the direct riven lubricated compressor has large wheels, a comfortable rubber grip handle and large guages.  It also has a pressure reducer knob with an innovative ‘snap’ adjustment mechanism and dual compressed air output.  The direct driven lubricate twin ‘v’ cylinder compressor is a heavy-duty compressor that comes with an aluminium pump and cast-iron cylinder for large air reserve and high performances.  Due to its incredible power, low noise and compact size, this is an essential machine for intensive use in any environment, and is particularly suitable for use with a wide range of pneumatic tools.   Rovelli says that Probe’s strategy to bringing high quality, compressed air to local markets is expected to take the company to a (US$ 71.4 million) R1 billion business by 2020.  And that, he says, is a solid commitment; not just hot air.       Please click here for a selection of images.    