Goscor Earth Moving (GEM), part of the Goscor Group, is continuing its introduction of the latest SANY equipment into the local market with the launch of a new hydraulic excavator for the toughest African operating conditions. The SY215C hydraulic excavator is one of five models developed specifically by SANY for the international market, GEM General Manager, Andre Steenkamp, explains. It is equipped with an Isuzu AM-4HK1X Stage IIIA four-cylinder, four-stroke common rail diesel engine that features a variable geometric turbocharger, intercooler, cooled Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) and high-precision Diesel Particle Diffuser (DPD). The positive flow controlled hydraulic system means that the main pump’s displacement is directly proportional to the signal pressure from the operator’s joystick. This means that the controller determines the real-time flow demand and variation trend of the actuator, in addition to regulating the displacement. With a 093 m3 bucket capacity, a ground pressure of 47 kPa, an operating weight of 22 200 kg, and 2 000 rpm, the SY215C hydraulic excavator has been developed and designed to perform in the toughest working conditions. A X-beam design, based on a box-section structure with high strength and durability, provides excellent torsion- and bending-resistance. The track rollers, carrier rollers, and idlers all use seal-in lubrication for improved longevity. The triple grouser track shoes, rolled with a high-strength alloy, provide for excellent contact, stability, and durability. The track links feature additional reinforced ribs for increased strength and shock absorption when travelling over rough surfaces. A highlight of the SY215C hydraulic excavator is a totally redesigned boom and arm structure that minimises stress points. Comfort and operator safety are also key, in addition to simplified maintenance and service to reduce time and costs, allowing for the lowest total cost of ownership for end users. Part of the Goscor Group, GEM offers SANY excavators, motor graders, and rollers for the construction, mining, agriculture, sand and stone, forestry, roadworks, and plant hire sectors. The main differentiator for SANY in the local market is highly-competitive pricing for a world-class product, supplemented by increased parts-holding and full in-field service and technical back-up through GEM’s national branch structure, Managing Director, Barry Owen, comments. In addition, SANY equipment has been engineered specifically for African operating conditions, including features such as shorter sticks and stronger booms on its excavators for enhanced durability. Major benefits for customers are fuel savings, efficiency, user-friendly design, and reliability.